Aims
Function of the Education Group
Co-op Members Responsibilities
Education Funding for ASH Co-operative Members and Staff
Education Funding for non-members
Education for Other Organisations
Guidance for the Education Co-ordinators
Aims

To increase the expertise level in housing and related matters that is available for ASH Co-operative to call upon.
Support the expansion of the Co-operative movement.
Enhance co-operation amongst co-operatives.
Function of the Education Group

Identify areas where education is necessary within ASH Co-operative.
Share information regarding training with appropriate groups (welfare, maintenance, etc).
Promote the uptake of the education budget in relation to ASH Co- operatives continued running and development.
Co-op Members Responsibilities

Complete a statement for the GM discussing their course outlining;
Why they want to attend this particular course/seminar/conference.
How ASH benefits from this.
Any specific projects within ASH that may benefit.
They will complete the course and pass on any knowledge and skills practicable to appropriate members.
Utilise the acquired skills for the benefit of ASH Co-operative.
Complete a post course evaluation sheet for the education group.
Education Funding for ASH Co-operative Members and Staff

Training, conferences and seminars paid for by ASH Co-operative should be for the benefit of ASH Co-operative AND the member or staff attending on its behalf.
Education require agreement from a GM/CM/SAGM or AGM that the course will benefit ASH Co-operative or the member.
Agreement must take into account the Education budget and other riorities.
Education Funding for non-members

Total funding allocation should not exceed 10% of the overall Education budget.
Preference shall be given to other Co-operatives, Charities and Community Groups with ideals aligned with ASH Co-operative.
Benefit to ASH Co-operative needs must be clear.
Allocation of the education is subject to approval of GM and the decision must take into account entire budget and reserves.
Education for Other Organisations

Courses booked on or off site which are under-subscribed by its members may be offered to external organisations.
Courses are offered on an ad hoc basis but primarily will be offered to organisations with aligned ideals (Co-operatives, charities and community groups).
Where possible payment shall be sought for these places at cost (inc. food and travel) for those organisations with aligned ideals all others shall be priced at costs pl15%.
A deposit of 10% shall be obtained at the earliest possible convenience for those organisations booking onto a course organised by ASH Co-operative.
Allocation shall be subject to the Education Co-ordinators' decision if more than one in number or by the Education Co-ordinator plus one Committee Member. All sudecisions must be reported to the earliest possible GM.
Guidance for the Education Co-ordinators

They must monitor relevant training courses available from local schools, colleges, the Confederation of Co-operative Housing, Upkeep, ACAS & any other organisation they deem to deliver suitable training for ASH Co-operative.
Maintain records on relevant training courses; including costs, location, course length, delivery organisation, etc.
Monitor and identify ASH Co-operatives training needs.
Liaise with other Group Co-ordinators and members about ASH Co- operatives training needs.
Encourage appropriate ASH Co-operative members to attend appropriate courses.
Organise the payment of reasonable sundry expenses.
Travel

Remind those entitled to reimbursement to retain all travel tickets for reimbursement.
Remind those attending off-site events to use public transport where practical.
Remind members that ASH Co-operative will pay travel expenses in their own vehicle at the current HMRC rates.
Remind members of suitable discount sites that provide cheaper travel costs.
Food

Remind those entitled to reimbursement to retain all food and beverage receipts for reimbursement.
Remind those attending courses in Cambridge that if food is not provided they are entitled to reimbursement of £6 per day for food expenses on production of a receipt.
Remind those attending courses outside of Cambridge that if food is not provided they are entitled to £10 per day for food expenses and £4 even if food is provided, on the production of a receipt.
Remind those attending overnight events that if food is not supplied they are entitled to reimbursement of £30 per day (lunch and dinner) for food expenses.
Remind those attending an overnight event that even if food and drink are supplied they are entitled to £10 sundry expenses for alcoholic beverages, the cinema, etc. and £5 for children attending.
Accommodation

Encourage members to seek overnight accommodation with friends if not supplied on the course (an extra £10 shall be supplied to supplement refreshments in these circumstances at the discretion of the Education Co-ordinator(s)).
Where accommodation is not supplied and a friend is not available then a reasonably priced hotel shall be arranged.
Limit for daily accommodation costs £70.
Childcare

Encourage members to seek alternatives if not supplied with the course.
Where childcare is not supplied ASH Co-operative will fund appropriate carers.
Where possible relatives or close friends may be offered 25% of the recognised childcare costs to provide the same service.
In these circumstances the money must be collected and signed for by that family member/friend.
Is the only circumstance where ASH will fund a non-registered childminder
They must not be the other parent of the child.
Every year an assessment shall be made by the education co-ordinators as to the average rate of childcare.
Ensure that applications for bursaries, grants and reduced rates are made where available.
When courses are held on-site the Education Co-ordinators shall facilitate lunch where practical.
Liaise with the finance group and/or the office to ensure all course, travel, food and accommodation payments are made promptly.
Report at least Quarterly to meetings.
Prepare a summary of the previous year's educational activities for the annual report.
Review the policy at least annually.
